What is Linux: 

A Linux-based system is a modular Unix-like operating system, deriving much of its basic design from
principles established in Unix during the 1970s and 1980s. Such a system uses a monolithic kernel,
the Linux kernel, which handles process control, networking, access to the peripherals, and file
systems. Device drivers are either integrated directly with the kernel, or added as modules that are
loaded while the system is running.
Separate projects that interface with the kernel provide much of the system's higher-level
functionality. The GNU userland is an important part of most Linux-based systems, providing the
most common implementation of the C library, a popular CLI shell, and many of the common Unix
tools which carry out many basic operating system tasks. The graphical user interface (or GUI) used
by most Linux systems is built on top of an implementation of the X Window System. 

Installed components of a Linux system include the following:
A bootloader, for example GNU GRUB or LILO. This is a program that loads the Linux kernel into the
computer's main memory, by being executed by the computer when it is turned on and after the
firmware initialization is performed.
An init program, such as the traditional system V init and the newer systemd, OpenRC and Upstart.
This is the first process launched by the Linux kernel, and is at the root of the process tree: in other
words, all processes are launched through init. It starts processes such as system services and login
prompts (whether graphical or in terminal mode).
Software libraries, which contain code that can be used by running processes. On Linux systems
using ELF-format executable files, the dynamic linker that manages use of dynamic libraries is known
as ld-linux.so. If the system is set up for the user to compile software themselves, header files will
also be included to describe the interface of installed libraries. Beside the most commonly used
software library on Linux systems, the GNU C Library (glibc), there are numerous other libraries.
C standard library is the library needed to run standard C programs on a computer system, with the
GNU C Library being the most commonly used
Widget toolkits are the libraries used to build graphical user interfaces (GUIs) for software
applications. Numerous widget toolkits are available, including GTK+ and Clutter (software)
developed by the GNOME project.
User interface programs such as command shells or windowing environments.

Bash, a shell developed by GNU and widely used in Linux
The user interface, also known as the shell, is either a command-line interface (CLI), a graphical user
interface (GUI), or through controls attached to the associated hardware, which is common for
embedded systems. For desktop systems, the default mode is usually a graphical user interface,
although the CLI is available through terminal emulator windows or on a separate virtual console.
CLI shells are the text-based user interfaces, which use text for both input and output. The dominant
shell used in Linux is the GNU Bourne-Again Shell (bash), originally developed for the GNU project.
Most low-level Linux components, including various parts of the userland, use the CLI exclusively.
The CLI is particularly suited for automation of repetitive or delayed tasks, and provides very simple inter-process communication.